.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH ACAT 3 2022-06-04 "Ver. 1.1.0" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBacat\fR - concatenate one array with another.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/array.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBArray *acat(Array *pArray1, const Array *pArray2, ushort aflags);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBacat\fR() function concatenates two arrays, subject to the operation flag in \fIaflags\fR, which is either
\fBAOpInPlace\fR  or zero.
.PP
If the \fBAOpInPlace\fR flag is specified, the function appends the contents of the array pointed to by
\fIpArray2\fR to the array pointed to by \fIpArray1\fR by copying all elements from the second array to the
end of the first in order.  The length of the first array is thereby increased by the length of the second
array.  The second array remains unchanged.
.PP
If the \fBAOpInPlace\fR flag is not specified, the function creates and returns an array that contains copies
of all the elements from the array pointed to by \fIpArray1\fR in order followed by all the elements from
the array pointed to by \fIpArray2\fR in order.  The two source arrays remain unchanged.
.SH RETURN VALUES
If successful, \fBacat\fR() returns either \fIpArray1\fR, if the \fBAOpInPlace\fR flag was specified, or a
pointer to the array that was created.  It returns NULL on failure, and sets an exception code and message in
the CXL Exception System to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
apush(3), aunshift(3), cxl(3), excep(3)
