.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH ACOMPACT 3 2022-11-04 "Ver. 1.2" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBacompact\fR - remove nil elements from an array.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/array.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBArray *acompact(Array *\fIpArray\fB, ushort \fIaflags\fB);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBacompact\fR() function deletes all nil elements from an array (that is, any element whose datum
contains a nil value), subject to the operation flag in \fIaflags\fR, which is either \fBAOpInPlace\fR or zero.
.PP
If the \fBAOpInPlace\fR flag is specified, all nil elements in the array pointed to by \fIpArray\fR are
deleted, and the size of the array is reduced by the number of elements deleted.  If the \fBAOpInPlace\fR flag
is not specified, the function copies all non-nil elements (possibly zero) from the array pointed to by
\fIpArray\fR to a new array and returns it.  In this case, the array pointed to by \fIpArray\fR remains unchanged.
.SH RETURN VALUES
If successful, the \fBacompact\fR() function returns either \fIpArray\fR, if the \fBAOpInPlace\fR flag was
specified, or a pointer to the array that was created.  It returns NULL on failure, and sets an exception code
and message in the CXL Exception System to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
adelete(3), adeleteif(3), cxl(3), cxl_datum(7), excep(3)
