.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH AEACH 3 2022-11-04 "Ver. 1.2" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBaeach\fR - step through an array, returning each element in sequence.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/array.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBDatum *aeach(Array **\fIppArray\fB);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBaeach\fR() routine provides a means to access each element of an array in sequence, beginning at
the first.  The function returns the contents of the next element (a \fBDatum *\fR) each time it is called.  When no
elements remain, it returns NULL.
.PP
The caller must provide the address of a variable of type \fBArray *\fR to the function in \fIppArray\fR for each call,
which is an indirect pointer to the array to be stepped through.  This variable is used to maintain state information,
and is modified by this routine.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following code fragment illustrates how \fBaeach\fR() is typically used to step through an array:
.nf
.ta 4 8 12
.sp
	// Loop through array pointed to by "pArray".
	Array *pArray1 = pArray;
	Datum *pDatum;
.sp
	while((pDatum = aeach(&pArray1)) != NULL) {
.sp
		// Do something with pDatum.
		...
		}
.fi
.PP
Note that the array is not modified by stepping through it; however, the element values may be changed if desired; that is,
the contents of the datums that \fIpDatum\fR points to.
.SH SEE ALSO
aget(3), cxl(3), cxl_array(7), cxl_datum(7)
