.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH AFILL 3 2022-11-04 "Ver. 1.2" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBafill\fR - fill a slice of an array with a value.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/array.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBint afill(Array *\fIpArray\fB, const Datum *\fIpVal\fB, ArraySize \fIindex\fB, ArraySize \fIlen\fB, ushort \fIaflags\fB);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBafill\fR() function replaces \fIlen\fR elements beginning at position \fIindex\fR in the array
pointed to by \fIpArray\fR with copies of the datum pointed to by \fIpVal\fR, subject to the operation flag in
\fIaflags\fR.  The \fIaflags\fR argument is either \fBAOpGrow\fR or zero.
.PP
If the index is negative, the starting position is determined by counting backward from the end of the array,
where -1 is the last element; otherwise, the starting position is relative to the beginning of the array with
the first being 0.
.PP
If the length is negative, the slice is adjusted to end at the last element.  If the length specifies a slice
that extends beyond the end of the array, the array is auto-extended if the \fBAOpGrow\fR flag is specified;
otherwise, it is an error.
.SH RETURN VALUES
If successful, \fBafill\fR() returns zero.  It returns a negative integer on failure, and sets an exception
code and message in the CXL Exception System to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
aget(3), ainsert(3), apush(3), aunshift(3), cxl(3), excep(3)
