.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH AGET 3 2022-06-04 "Ver. 1.1.0" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBaget\fR - get contents of an array element, optionally auto-extending array.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/array.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBDatum *aget(Array *pArray, ArraySize index, ushort aflags);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBaget\fR() function gets the element at position \fIindex\fR from the array pointed to by \fIpArray\fR,
subject to the operation flag in \fIaflags\fR, which is either \fBAOpGrow\fR or zero.
.PP
If the index is negative, the element is selected by counting backward from the end of the array, where -1 is
the last element; otherwise, the element is selected from the beginning of the array with the first being 0.
If the index is non-negative and the \fBAOpGrow\fR flag is specified, the array will be extended if
necessary to satisfy the request.  In this case, any array elements that are created are set to nil values.
Otherwise, the referenced element must already exist.
.PP
Note that \fBaget\fR() may be used to ensure that an array is of some arbitrary minimum length before its
elements are accessed.  For example, the following line of code guarantees that the array pointed to by
\fIpArray\fR contains at least 50 elements:
.RS 4
.HP 2
(void) aget(pArray, 49, AOpGrow);
.RE
.PP
In this simple example, the return value is ignored.  You would probably want to check it for NULL (indicating an
error) in your code.
.SH RETURN VALUES
If successful, \fBaget\fR() returns a pointer to the contents of the selected element (a value of type
\fBDatum *\fR).  Note that if the referenced datum is subsequently changed, the array element is also changed.
.PP
The function returns NULL on failure, and sets an exception code and message in the CXL Exception System to
indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
apop(3), ashift(3), cxl(3), cxl_datum(7), excep(3)
