.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH AINDEX 3 2022-06-04 "Ver. 1.1.0" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBadeleteif\fR, \fBainclude\fR, \fBaindex\fR - locate element(s) in an array.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/array.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBArraySize adeleteif(Array *pArray, const Datum *pVal, ushort aflags);\fR
.HP 2
\fBbool ainclude(const Array *pArray, const Datum *pVal, ushort aflags);\fR
.HP 2
\fBArraySize aindex(const Array *pArray, const Datum *pVal, ushort aflags);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions locate element(s) in the array pointed to by \fIpArray\fR that match the datum pointed to by
\fIpVal\fR, subject to the operation flag(s) in \fIaflags\fR, and optionally, perform an operation on the matching
element(s).  The \fIaflags\fR argument is the bitwise OR of zero or more of the flag(s) \fBAOpIgnore\fR and
\fBAOpLast\fR.
.PP
The \fBadeleteif\fR() function deletes all matching elements from the array and returns the number of elements deleted.
.PP
The \fBainclude\fR() function returns true if at least one match is found, otherwise false.
.PP
The \fBaindex\fR() function returns the index of the first (or last if the \fBAOpLast\fR flag is specified)
matching element, or -1 if no match is found.
.PP
All of the functions ignore case in string comparisons when searching for matches if the \fBAOpIgnore\fR flag is specified.
.SH SEE ALSO
adelete(3), cxl(3)
