.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH AINSERT 3 2022-06-04 "Ver. 1.1.0" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBainsert\fR - insert an element into an array.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/array.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBint ainsert(Array *pArray, Datum *pVal, ArraySize index, ushort aflags);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBainsert\fR() function inserts the datum pointed to by \fIpVal\fR into the array pointed to by
\fIpArray\fR at position \fIindex\fR, subject to the operation flag in \fIaflags\fR.  The \fIaflags\fR argument is
either \fBAOpCopy\fR or zero.
.PP
If the index is negative, the insertion position is determined by counting backward from the end of the array,
where -1 is the last element.  The datum is then inserted after the referenced position (and thus, the datum
will be appended to the array if the index is -1).
.PP
If the index is non-negative, the position is relative to the beginning of the array with the first being 0.
In this case, the datum is inserted before the referenced position (and thus, the datum will be prepended to
the array if the index is 0)
.PP
If the \fBAOpCopy\fR flag is specified, the datum pointed to by \fIpVal\fR is copied into the array with
dcpy(3); otherwise, the \fIpVal\fR pointer is stored directly.  In the latter case, the datum pointed to by
\fIpVal\fR must have been allocated in memory; for example, with a call to dnew(3).
.SH RETURN VALUES
If successful, \fBainsert\fR() returns zero.  It returns a negative integer on failure, and sets an exception
code and message in the CXL Exception System to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
apush(3), aunshift(3), cxl(3), cxl_datum(7), dnew(3), excep(3)
