.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH AMATCH 3 2022-11-04 "Ver. 1.2" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBamatch\fR, \fBauniq\fR - perform set operations on arrays.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/array.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBArray *amatch(Array *\fIpArray1\fB, const Array *\fIpArray2\fB, ushort \fIaflags\fB);\fR
.HP 2
\fBArray *auniq(Array *\fIpArray1\fB, const Array *\fIpArray2\fB, ushort \fIaflags\fB);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions perform set operations on the two arrays pointed to by \fIpArray1\fR and \fIpArray2\fR,
subject to the operation flag(s) in \fIaflags\fR, which is the bitwise OR of zero or more of the flag(s)
\fBAOpInPlace\fR and \fBAOpIgnore\fR.
.PP
The \fBamatch\fR() function performs set intersection; that is, it constructs a new array of all elements that
occur in both arrays, excluding duplicates and maintaining the order of the matching elements from the first
array.  Alternatively, if the \fBAOpNonMatching\fR flag is specified, the function constructs a new array of
all elements from the first array that do not occur in the second array, excluding duplicates.
.PP
The \fBauniq\fR() function performs set union on the first array or both arrays.  It constructs a new array of
unique elements from the first array, maintaining their order and, if \fIpArray2\fR is not NULL, appends unique
elements from the second array.
.PP
If the \fBAOpInPlace\fR flag is specified for either function, the contents of the first array is replaced with
the results and \fIpArray1\fR is returned; otherwise, a pointer to the new array is returned.  Additionally,
if the \fBAOpIgnore\fR flag is specified for either function, case is ignored in string comparisons.
.SH RETURN VALUES
If successful, both functions return an array pointer as described above.  They return NULL on failure, and
set an exception code and message in the CXL Exception System to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
acat(3), cxl(3)
