.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH ANEW 3 2022-11-04 "Ver. 1.2" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBanew\fR, \fBainit\fR, \fBaclear\fR - create, initialize, or clear an array.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/array.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBArray *anew(ArraySize \fIlen\fB, const Datum *\fIpVal\fB);\fR
.HP 2
\fBvoid ainit(Array *\fIpArray\fB);\fR
.HP 2
\fBvoid aclear(Array *\fIpArray\fB);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions either create an array by allocating an \fBArray\fR object in memory, or prepare an existing
\fBArray\fR object for use.
.PP
The \fBanew\fR() function creates an array in memory of \fIlen\fR elements (which may be zero).  If \fIpVal\fR
is NULL, each array element is set to a nil value; otherwise, the datum pointed to by \fIpVal\fR is copied to each
element.  Note that the datum may be of any type, including array (in which case the array would contain nested array(s)).
.PP
The \fBainit\fR() function initializes the existing array pointed to by \fIpArray\fR (e.g., a
local variable on the stack) to zero elements.  The pointer to the array should be passed to \fBaclear\fR() when the array
is no longer needed.
.PP
The \fBaclear\fR() function releases all memory used by the array pointed to by \fIpArray\fR, with the exception of
the \fBArray\fR object itself.  After \fBaclear\fR() is called, the empty array may be reused.  Alternatively, an array
can be cleared and freed in one step by calling afree(3), but only if it was allocated in memory.  See cxl_array(7)
for details.
.SH RETURN VALUES
If successful, \fBanew\fR() returns a pointer to the array that was created.  It returns NULL on
failure, and sets an exception code and message in the CXL Exception System to indicate the error.
.PP
The \fBainit\fR() and \fBaclear\fR() functions do not return a value.
.SH SEE ALSO
afree(3), cxl(3), cxl_datum(7), excep(3)
