.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH APUSH 3 2022-06-04 "Ver. 1.1.0" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBapush\fR, \fBapop\fR, \fBashift\fR, \fBaunshift\fR - push, pop, shift, or unshift an element to or from an array.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/array.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBint apush(Array *pArray, Datum *pVal, ushort aflags);\fR
.HP 2
\fBDatum *apop(Array *pArray);\fR
.HP 2
\fBDatum *ashift(Array *pArray);\fR
.HP 2
\fBint aunshift(Array *pArray, Datum *pVal, ushort aflags);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
These routines provide a means of using an array as a stack or queue.  Elements can be added to removed from
either end of an array, one at a time.
.PP
The \fBapush\fR() and \fBaunshift\fR() functions respectively, append and prepend the datum pointed to by
\fIpVal\fR to the array pointed to by \fIpArray\fR subject to operation flag in \fIaflags\fR, thereby
increasing the length of the array by one.  The \fIaflags\fR argument is either \fBAOpCopy\fR or zero.
.PP
If the \fIaflags\fR argument is \fBAOpCopy\fR, the datum pointed to by \fIpVal\fR is copied to the array;
otherwise, the \fIpVal\fR pointer is stored directly.  In the latter case, the datum pointed to by \fIpVal\fR
must have been allocated in memory; for example, with a call to dnew(3).
.PP
The \fBapop\fR() and \fBashift\fR() functions remove respectively, the last and first element from the array
pointed to by \fIpArray\fR and return it, thereby decreasing the length of the array by one.
.SH RETURN VALUES
If successful, \fBapush\fR() and \fBaunshift\fR() return zero.  They return a negative integer on failure, and
set an exception code and message in the CXL Exception System to indicate the error.
.PP
The \fBapop\fR() and \fBashift\fR() functions return the array element that was removed (a value of type
\fBDatum *\fR), or NULL if no elements remain.  No error is possible.
.SH SEE ALSO
cxl(3), cxl_array(7), cxl_datum(7), dnew(3), excep(3)
