.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH APUT 3 2022-11-04 "Ver. 1.2" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBajoin\fR, \fBatos\fR, \fBaput\fR - convert an array to a string.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/array.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBint ajoin(Datum *\fIpDatum\fB, const Array *\fIpArray\fB, const char *\fIdelim\fB, ushort \fIcflags\fB);\fR
.HP 2
\fBint atos(Datum *\fIpDatum\fB, const Array *\fIpArray\fB, const char *\fIdelim\fB, ushort \fIcflags\fB);\fR
.HP 2
\fBint aput(const Array *\fIpArray\fB, DFab *\fIpFab\fB, const char *\fIdelim\fB, ushort \fIcflags\fB);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBajoin\fR(), \fBatos\fR() ("array to string"), and \fBaput\fR() functions convert the array pointed to
by \fIpArray\fR to a string, if possible, subject to the conversion flag(s) in \fIcflags\fR.  The
\fBajoin\fR() and \fBatos\fR() functions store the result of the conversion in the datum pointed to by
\fIpDatum\fR, whereas \fBaput\fR() writes the result to the opened fabrication object pointed to by
\fIpFab\fR.  The array remains unchanged.  The available conversion flags are described in dput(3).
.PP
The elements of the array will be separated by string \fIdelim\fR, if \fIdelim\fR is not NULL.  This delimiter
overrides the default comma delimter that is generated by the \fBACvtDelim\fR flag.
.PP
Note that the \fBajoin\fR() function is intended for joining array elements without formatting (in "raw" string form),
and \fBatos\fR() is intended for joining array elements with formatting (in a "human readable" form); however,
they will produce the same result with the same combination of flags, with one exception: the \fBACvtBrkts\fR
flag does not apply to the (top level) array pointed to by \fIpArray\fR for the \fBajoin\fR() function (but
does apply to nested arrays), whereas the \fBACvtBrkts\fR flag applies to all arrays for the \fBatos\fR()
function, including the one pointed to by \fIpArray\fR.
.PP
Note also that if the array pointed to by \fIpArray\fR contains itself at any nesting level, that element will
be output as "..." (or "[...]" if the \fBACvtBrkts\fR flag is specified) as an indicator of such.
.SH RETURN VALUES
If successful, all of these functions return either 0 or 1.  If the array does not contain itself, they
return 0, otherwise 1.  They return a negative integer on failure, and set an exception code and message
in the CXL Exception System to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
cxl(3), cxl_array(7), cxl_datum(7), dtos(3), excep(3)
