.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH ASPLIT 3 2022-11-04 "Ver. 1.2" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBasplit\fR - split a string into an array of substrings.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/array.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBArray *asplit(short \fIdelim\fB, const char *\fIsrc\fB, int \fIlimit\fB);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBasplit\fR() function splits string \fIsrc\fR into an array using delimiter \fIdelim\fR and limit value
\fIlimit\fR.  Substrings are separated by either a single 8-bit character, white space, a null string, or no
delimiter, as indicated by the integer value in \fIdelim\fR, as follows (with values shown in hexadecimal):
.PP
.RS 4
.PD 0
.IP \fBVALUE\fR 16
\fBMEANING\fR
.IP '\e0' 16
Delimiter is a null string.  String is split into individual characters, including white space characters, if any.
.IP '\~' 16
Delimiter is white space.  One or more of the characters \(aq \(aq, \(aq\et\(aq, \(aq\en\(aq, \(aq\er\(aq,
\(aq\ef\(aq, \(aq\ev\(aq in sequence are treated as a single delimiter.  Additionally, leading white space in
the string is ignored.
.IP 1\~-\~0xFF 16
8-bit value of a character to use as the delimiter, except \(aq \(aq (0x20).
.IP <\~0\~or\~>\~0xFF 16
No delimiter defined.  A single-element array is returned containing the original string in \fIsrc\fR, unmodified.
.PD
.RE
.PP
The integer value in \fIlimit\fR controls the splitting process, as follows:
.sp
.RS 4
.PD 0
.IP \fBVALUE\fR 16
\fBMEANING\fR
.IP <\~0 16
Each delimiter found is significant and delineates two substrings, either or both of which may be a null string.
.IP 0 16
Trailing null substrings are ignored; that is, not included in the array.
.IP >\~0 16
Maximum number of array elements to return.
.PD
.RE
.PP
Note that if the limit value is greater than zero, the last element of the array will contain embedded
delimiter(s) if the number of delimiters in the string is equal to or greater than the limit.
.SH RETURN VALUES
If successful, \fBasplit\fR() returns a pointer to the array that is created.  It returns NULL on failure, and
sets an exception code and message in the CXL Exception System to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
aeach(3), aget(3), ajoin(3), cxl(3), cxl_array(7), excep(3), join(3), split(3)
