.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH CONVDELIM 3 2022-06-04 "Ver. 1.1.0" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBconvDelim\fR - convert a delimiter specification to an 8-bit character.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/lib.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBint convDelim(const char *spec);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBconvDelim\fR() function converts the delimiter specification \fIspec\fR to an 8-bit
character and returns it.  The \fIspec\fR argument must be a single character or a numeric
literal.  If the latter, the value must be in range 0 through 255 (the value of an 8-bit
character) and conform to the numeric literal requirements of strtol(3) with a base of zero.  In
either case, leading or trailing white space in the specification is considered an error.
.PP
If the string in \fIspec\fR is invalid, the function sets an exception message and returns -1.
.SH EXAMPLES
The \fBconvDelim\fR() function is typically used to convert a command line argument, where a
delimiter must be specified that may be a control character.  The following table shows some
examples, with the octal value of the 8-bit character that would be returned by the function:
.PP
.RS 4
.PD 0
.IP \fBSPECIFICATION\fR 20
\fBCHARACTER\fR
.RS 4
.IP : 18
072 (colon)
.IP '\~' 18
040 (space)
.IP 011 18
011 (tab)
.IP 0xB 18
011 (tab)
.IP 13 18
015 (return)
.IP 126 18
176 (tilde)
.IP '~' 18
176 (tilde)
.IP 256 18
*ERROR*
.RE
.RE
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
cxl(3), excep(3), strtol(3)
