.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH CXL_FASTIO 7 2022-06-04 "Ver. 1.1.0" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBfastio\fR - fast I/O package.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/fastio.h"\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The CXL library contains a number of functions that perform fast I/O on files.  These functions use low-level system calls
and large input and output buffers to minimize disk access, thereby providing for high speed reading and writing, especially
on large files.  Any named file can be opened for reading or writing.  It is also possible to read from standard input
or write to standard output by using "-" for the filename.
.PP
In addition to performing fast I/O, the functions provide the ability to read lines of any length from a text file, with
automatic detection of a NL, CR, or CR-LF line delimiter.  It is also possible to "slurp" a file; that is, read an entire
file at once into memory.
.PP
All of the fast I/O functions use a \fBFastFile\fR structure to manage the file that is being processed.  This structure is
defined to contain at least the following members:
.sp
.RS 4
.PD 0
typedef struct {
.RS 4
.HP 2
const char *filename;
.HP 2
char *lineBuf;
.HP 2
} FastFile;
.RE
.PD
.RE
.PP
The \fIfilename\fR member is a copy of the filename that is passed to \fBffopen\fR() when a file is opened for input or output.
The \fIlineBuf\fR member holds the line most recently read from an input file with \fBffgets\fR(), or the contents of an
entire file read with \fBffslurp\fR().  Buffer space is allocated automatically as needed by the functions.
.SH SEE ALSO
cxl(3)
.PP
Specific function names (like \fBffopen\fR) listed in cxl(3) under the \fBFAST I/O\fR section
for detailed routine descriptions.
