.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH DCLOSE 3 2022-06-04 "Ver. 1.1.0" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBdclose\fR - close a fabrication object.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/datum.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBint dclose(DFab *pFab, ushort type);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBdclose\fR() function ends the datum-build process in the \fBDFab\fR object pointed to by \fIpFab\fR and
closes the fabrication object.  The \fItype\fR argument specifies the type of close to perform, which must be
one of the following:
.PP
.RS 4
.PD 0
.IP "FabStr, FabStrRef" 12
The contents of the datum associated with the fabrication object will be converted to a null-terminated string
of type \fBdat_miniStr\fR or \fBdat_longStr\fR (if FabStr specified), or \fBdat_longStrRef\fR (if FabStrRef specified).
If the data contains any null bytes, it is considered an error.
.sp
.IP "FabMem, FabMemRef" 12
The contents of the datum associated with the fabrication object will be converted to a byte string of type
\fBdat_byteStr\fR (if FabMem specified) or \fBdat_byteStrRef\fR (if FabMemRef specified), which may contain null bytes.
The length of the byte string is set in the datum; that is, in \fIpFab->pDatum->u.mem.size\fR.
.sp
.IP FabAuto 12
The contents of the datum associated with the fabrication object will be converted to either a null-terminated
string or a byte string automatically, depending on whether the data contains any null bytes.  If no null
bytes are found, it is converted to a string (type \fBdat_miniStr\fR or \fBdat_longStr\fR), otherwise a byte
string (type \fBdat_byteStr\fR).
.PD
.RE
.PP
After the fabrication object is closed by this function, its associated datum can be accessed via the
\fIpDatum\fR member of the \fBDFab\fR structure.  The datum exists independently of the fabrication object at
this point.  Additionally, any memory that was allocated during the build process is contained within the
datum, so nothing needs to be freed in the fabrication object.
.PP
Note that if the close type is FabStrRef or FabMemRef, the contents of the datum will not be freed when the datum
is freed, thus the pointer to the contents (\fIpFab->pDatum->str\fR or \fIpFab->pDatum->u.mem.ptr\fR, respectively)
should be passed to free(3) by the caller when the datum is no longer needed, and before the datum is freed.
.SH RETURN VALUES
If successful, \fBdclose\fR() returns zero.  It returns a negative integer on failure, and sets an exception
code and message in the CXL Exception System to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
cxl(3), cxl_datum(7), dopen(3), dopentrack(3), excep(3)
