.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH DFREE 3 2022-11-04 "Ver. 1.2" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBdfree\fR, \fBdrelease\fR - clear a datum and free its memory, or "release" its contents.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/datum.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBvoid dfree(Datum *\fIpDatum\fB);\fR
.HP 2
\fBint drelease(Datum *\fIpDatum\fB);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBdfree\fR() function clears and frees the datum pointed to by \fIpDatum\fR; that is, it releases any
memory used by the contents of the datum by calling dclear(3), then releases the memory for the datum
itself by calling free(3).  Note that this routine should not be called for a datum that exists in a local
variable on the stack (and was initialized with dinit(3)).  Use dclear(3) instead.
.PP
The \fBdrelease\fR() function "releases" the contents of the datum pointed to by \fIpDatum\fR so that the data
will not be freed when the datum is freed.  It accomplishes this by converting any byte string, array, or
string type which holds data that is allocated in memory to the corresponding reference type; for example,
type dat_array is converted to dat_arrayRef.  The released contents should be passed to free(3) when no longer needed.
.SH RETURN VALUES
If successful, \fBdrelease\fR() returns zero.  It returns a negative integer on failure, and sets an
exception code and message in the CXL Exception System to indicate the error.
.PP
The \fBdfree\fR() function does not return a value.
.SH SEE ALSO
cxl(3), cxl_datum(7), dclear(3), dinit(3), dset(3), free(3)
