.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH DISVAL 3 2022-06-04 "Ver. 1.1.0" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBdisnil\fR, \fBdischr\fR, \fBdisnull\fR, \fBdisempty\fR, \fBdistrue\fR, \fBdisfalse\fR - test a datum for
value(s) and return Boolean result.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/datum.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBbool disnil(const Datum *pDatum);\fR
.HP 2
\fBbool dischr(const Datum *pDatum);\fR
.HP 2
\fBbool disnull(const Datum *pDatum);\fR
.HP 2
\fBbool disempty(const Datum *pDatum);\fR
.HP 2
\fBbool distrue(const Datum *pDatum);\fR
.HP 2
\fBbool disfalse(const Datum *pDatum);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions perform value tests on the datum pointed to by \fIpDatum\fR and return true if the datum
contains the indicated value, otherwise false.
.PP
\fBdisnil\fR() tests if the datum is nil; \fBdischr\fR() tests if the datum is a character; \fBdisnull\fR()
tests if the datum is a null string; \fBdisempty\fR() tests if the datum is nil, a null string, or an array
that contains no elements; \fBdisfalse\fR() tests if the datum is nil or false; and \fBdistrue\fR() tests if
the datum is not nil and not false.
.PP
Note that both \fBdistrue\fR() and \fBdisfalse\fR() consider a datum containing a number, including zero, to be true.
.SH SEE ALSO
cxl(3), cxl_datum(7), dtyp(3)
