.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH DNEW 3 2022-11-04 "Ver. 1.2" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBdnew\fR, \fBdnewtrack\fR, \fBdinit\fR, \fBdclear\fR - create, initialize, or clear a datum.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/datum.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBint dnew(Datum **\fIppDatum\fB);\fR
.HP 2
\fBint dnewtrack(Datum **\fIppDatum\fB);\fR
.HP 2
\fBvoid dinit(Datum *\fIpDatum\fB);\fR
.HP 2
\fBvoid dclear(Datum *\fIpDatum\fB);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions prepare a datum for subsequent manipulation by the routines that store data into the object.
.PP
\fBdnew\fR() and \fBdnewtrack\fR() allocate a nil \fBDatum\fR object in memory and store a pointer to it in *\fIppDatum\fR.
The latter function also pushes the pointer onto the garbage collection stack.
.PP
\fBdinit\fR() initializes the datum pointed to by \fIpDatum\fR (which is usually the address of a local variable of type
\fBDatum\fR) and sets its value to nil.  If a string or byte string is subsequently stored into the datum, the memory
should be freed with \fBdclear\fR() when the datum is no longer needed.
.PP
\fBdclear\fR() releases the memory used by the datum pointed to by \fIpDatum\fR.  Note that this is done automatically by
the routines that store data into a datum.  After a datum is cleared, it can be reused, or disposed of completely by
passing the \fIpDatum\fR pointer to dfree(3).
.PP
Note that it is usually not necessary to call \fBdclear\fR(), except when you are working with a local \fBDatum\fR
variable that was initialized with \fBdinit\fR(), as mentioned above.  Datums that are created with \fBdnew\fR() are
usually disposed of with dfree(3); and those created with \fBdnewtrack\fR() are usually disposed of with
dgarbpop(3).  These two "disposal" functions call \fBdclear\fR() automatically.
.SH RETURN VALUES
If successful, \fBdnew\fR() and \fBdnewtrack\fR() return zero.  They return a negative integer on failure, and set an
exception code and message in the CXL Exception System to indicate the error.
.PP
\fBdinit\fR() and \fBdclear\fR() have no return values.
.SH SEE ALSO
dfree(3), dgarbpop(3), cxl(3), cxl_datum(7)
