.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH DOPEN 3 2022-11-04 "Ver. 1.2" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBdopen\fR, \fBdopentrack\fR, \fBdopenwith\fR - open a fabrication object for writing.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/datum.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBint dopen(DFab *\fIpFab\fB);\fR
.HP 2
\fBint dopentrack(DFab *\fIpFab\fB);\fR
.HP 2
\fBint dopenwith(DFab *\fIpFab\fB, Datum *\fIpDatum\fB, ushort \fImode\fB);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions associate a datum with a \fBDFab\fR object (or "fabrication object") and open the latter for data
storage using any of the \fBdput*\fR() functions such as \fBdputs\fR().  See cxl_datum(7) for an explanation of
fabrication objects and how they are used.
.PP
\fBdopen\fR() and \fBdopentrack\fR() open the fabrication object pointed to by \fIpFab\fR and associate it with a new
datum internally allocated in memory.  Additionally, the latter function pushes the datum onto the garbage collection stack.
.PP
\fBdopenwith\fR() opens the fabrication object pointed to by \fIpFab\fR and associates it with the existing \fBDatum\fR
object pointed to by \fIpDatum\fR with mode \fImode\fR, which must be one of the following:
.sp
.RS 4
.PD 0
.IP FabClear 16
Clear data in existing datum (default).
.IP FabAppend 16
Append to existing datum.
.IP FabPrepend 16
Prepend to existing datum.
.PD
.RE
.PP
If \fBFabAppend\fR or \fBFabPrepend\fR is specified for \fImode\fR and the datum contains a string, it will be
appended to or prepended to respectively; otherwise, if \fImode\fR is \fBFabClear\fR or an invalid value, the
datum will be overwritten as if \fBFabClear\fR was specified.
.SH RETURN VALUES
If successful, all of these functions return zero.  They return a negative integer on failure, and set an exception code
and message in the CXL Exception System to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
cxl(3), cxl_datum(7), dclose(7), excep(3)
