.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH ESTRTOL 3 2022-11-04 "Ver. 1.2" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBestrtol\fR, \fBestrtoul\fR - convert a string to a long integer with exception handling.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/lib.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBint estrtol(const char *\fIstr\fB, int \fIbase\fB, long *\fIpResult\fB);\fR
.HP 2
\fBint estrtoul(const char *\fIstr\fB, int \fIbase\fB, ulong *\fIpResult\fB);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions convert a string to a long integer like strtol(3) and strtoul(3), however they use a
simplified interface and the CXL Exception System for error reporting.
.PP
The \fBestrtol\fR() and \fBestrtoul\fR() functions convert the string \fIstr\fR to a
signed or unsigned long integer and save the result in the signed or unsigned long integer
pointed to by \fIpResult\fR, respectively.  The functions pass the \fIstr\fR and \fIbase\fR
arguments to strtol(3) or strtoul(3), respectively, to do the conversion.
.PP
If the input string contains any non-whitespace characters (as defined by the isspace(3)
function) following the string, it is considered an error.
.SH RETURN VALUES
If successful, \fBestrtol\fR() and \fBestrtoul\fR() return zero.  They return a negative integer
on failure, and set an exception code and message in the CXL Exception System to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
cxl(3), excep(3), isspace(3), strtol(3), strtoul(3)
