.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH FFGET 3 2022-11-04 "Ver. 1.2" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBffgetc\fR, \fBffgets\fR, \fBffread\fR, \fBffslurp\fR - read data from a fast file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/fastio.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBshort ffgetc(FastFile *\fIpFastFile\fB);\fR
.HP 2
\fBssize_t ffgets(FastFile *\fIpFastFile\fB);\fR
.HP 2
\fBssize_t ffread(void *\fIbuf\fB, ssize_t \fIlen\fB, FastFile *\fIpFastFile\fB);\fR
.HP 2
\fBssize_t ffslurp(FastFile *\fIpFastFile\fB);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions read data from the fast file pointed to by \fIpFastFile\fR.
.PP
\fBffgetc\fR() obtains the next input character, which is returned as an \fBunsigned char\fR converted to \fBshort int\fR.
.PP
\fBffgets\fR() reads the next line into the file\(aqs line buffer, expanding the buffer as necessary to hold the entire
line and delimiter, if any, and a null terminator.  If a line delimiter has not yet been established for
the file and a delimiter is found (CR-LF, CR, or NL), the delimiter is remembered and used for subsequent calls.
.PP
\fBffread\fR() reads at most \fIlen\fR bytes into the buffer pointed to by \fIbuf\fR.  Fewer than \fIlen\fR bytes
may be read if end-of-file is reached during the read.
.PP
\fBffslurp\fR() reads all remaining bytes from the file into the file\(aqs line buffer, expanding the buffer as
necessary to hold all bytes read plus a null terminator.  If no prior input operation was
performed, the line buffer will contain the entire file.
.SH RETURN VALUES
If successful, \fBffgetc\fR() returns the character read (including zero for a null character) or -1 if end-of-file
is reached.  It returns -2 on failure, and sets an exception code and message in the CXL Exception System to indicate
the error.
.PP
\fBffgets\fR() returns the number of characters read, or zero if end-of-file is reached.
\fBffread\fR() and \fBffslurp\fR() return the number of bytes read, or zero if end-of-file is reached.
They all return a negative integer on failure, and set an exception code and message in the CXL Exception System
to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
cxl(3), cxl_fastio(7), excep(3), ffeof(3)
