.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH FFOPEN 3 2022-06-04 "Ver. 1.1.0" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBffopen\fR - open a file for fast I/O.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/fastio.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBFastFile *ffopen(const char *filename, short mode);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBffopen\fR() function opens file \fIfilename\fR for input or output, and associates it with a \fBFastFile\fR object.
If \fIfilename\fR is NULL or the string "-", standard input or standard output is opened, depending on the mode (see below).
.PP
The \fImode\fR argument must be one of the following character values:
.sp
.PD 0
.RS 4
.IP 'r' 6
Attach file object to standard input if \fIfilename\fR is NULL or "-"; otherwise, open file for input.
.IP 'w' 6
Attach file object to standard output if \fIfilename\fR is NULL or "-"; otherwise, truncate existing file to zero length
or create file for output.
.IP 'a' 6
Attach file object to standard output if \fIfilename\fR is NULL or "-"; otherwise, create file if it does not
exist and open file for appending.
.RE
.PD
.SH RETURN VALUES
If successful, \fBffopen\fR() returns a pointer to a \fBFastFile\fR object.  It returns NULL on failure, and sets an
exception code and message in the CXL Exception System to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
cxl(3), cxl_fastio(7), excep(3), ffclose(3), ffclosekeep(3), fffree(3)
