.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH FFPUT 3 2022-11-04 "Ver. 1.2" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBffputc\fR, \fBffputs\fR, \fBffwrite\fR, \fBffputvizc\fR, \fBffputvizmem\fR - write data to a fast file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/fastio.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBint ffputc(short \fIc\fB, FastFile *\fIpFastFile\fB);\fR
.HP 2
\fBint ffputs(const char *\fIstr\fB, FastFile *\fIpFastFile\fB);\fR
.HP 2
\fBint ffwrite(void *\fIbuf\fB, size_t \fIlen\fB, FastFile *\fIpFastFile\fB);\fR
.HP 2
\fBint ffputvizc(short \fIc\fB, ushort \fIflags\fB, FastFile *\fIpFastFile\fB);\fR
.HP 2
\fBint ffputvizmem(const void *\fImemPtr\fB, size_t \fIsize\fB, ushort \fIflags\fB, FastFile *\fIpFastFile\fB);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions write data to the fast file pointed to by \fIpFastFile\fR.
.PP
\fBffputc\fR() writes character \fIc\fR, converted to an \fBunsigned char\fR.
.PP
\fBffputs\fR() writes the null-terminated string \fIstr\fR.
.PP
\fBffwrite\fR() writes \fIlen\fR bytes from the buffer pointed to by \fIbuf\fR.
.PP
\fBffputvizc\fR() writes character \fIc\fR converted to an \fBunsigned char\fR in visible string form, and
\fBffputvizmem\fR() writes \fIsize\fR bytes beginning at memory location \fImemPtr\fR (or the null-terminated
string at \fImemPtr\fR if \fIsize\fR is zero) in visible string form.  Both functions call \fBvizc\fR() with the
\fIflags\fR argument to convert the character(s).  See vizc(3) for details.
.SH RETURN VALUES
If successful, all of the functions return zero.  They return a negative integer on failure, and set an
exception code and message in the CXL Exception System to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
cxl(3), cxl_fastio(7), excep(3)
