.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH FFSETDELIM 3 2022-06-04 "Ver. 1.1.0" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBffsetdelim\fR - set a line delimiter type on a fast file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/fastio.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBint ffsetdelim(ushort delimType, FastFile *pFastFile);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBffsetdelim\fR() function sets the type of line delimiter to use on the fast file pointed to by \fIpFastFile\fR,
which must have been previously opened for input.  The type is specified by setting \fIdelimType\fR to one of the
following values:
.sp
.PD 0
.RS 4
.IP FFDelimNUL 16
Use a null character ('\e0').
.IP FFDelimCR 16
Use a single carriage return ('\er').
.IP FFDelimCRLF 16
Use a carriage return, line feed sequence ("\er\en").
.IP FFDelimNL 16
Use a single newline ('\en').
.RE
.PD
.PP
This routine is normally called immediately after a file is opened with \fBffopen\fR().  It provides a means to explicity
set a line delimiter for an input file being read from with \fBffgets\fR() instead of allowing \fBffgets\fR() to
auto-detect the delimiter, which is its default behavior.
.SH RETURN VALUES
If successful, \fBffsetdelim\fR() returns zero.  It returns a negative integer on failure, and sets an exception code and
message in the CXL Exception System to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
cxl(3), cxl_fastio(7), excep(3), ffgets(3), ffopen(3)
