.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH FPUTVIZ 3 2022-11-04 "Ver. 1.2" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBfputvizc\fR, \fBfputvizmem\fR - write data to a stream in visible form.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/ioext.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBint fputvizc(short \fIc\fB, ushort \fIflags\fB, FILE *\fIstream\fB);\fR
.HP 2
\fBint fputvizmem(const void *\fImemPtr\fB, size_t \fIsize\fB, ushort \fIflags\fB, FILE *\fIstream\fB);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBfputvizc\fR() function writes character \fIc\fR to the output stream pointed
to by \fIstream\fR in visible form by passing the character and the \fIflags\fR argument
to \fBvizc\fR() and outputting the string result of the conversion.
.PP
The \fBfputvizmem\fR() function writes zero or more bytes to the output stream pointed to by
\fIstream\fR in visible form by passing each byte to \fBvizc\fR() and outputting the string
result of the conversion.  If \fIsize\fR is greater than zero, \fIsize\fR bytes from the memory
area pointed to by \fImemPtr\fR are converted and written.  If size is equal to zero, \fImemPtr\fR is
assumed to point to a null-terminated string.  In this case, each character in the string is
converted and written.
.SH RETURN VALUES
If successful, \fBfputvizc\fR() and \fBfputvizmem\fR() return zero.  They return a negative integer on failure,
and set an exception code and message in the CXL Exception System to indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
cxl(3), excep(3), vizc(3)
