.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH STPLVIZCPY 3 2022-11-04 "Ver. 1.2" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBstplvizcpy\fR - copy a byte string in visible form.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/string.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBchar *stplvizcpy(char *\fIdest\fB, size_t \fIdestLen\fB, const void *\fIsrc\fB, size_t \fIsrcLen\fB, ushort \fIflags\fB);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBstplvizcpy\fR() function copies at most \fIsrcLen\fR bytes from memory area \fIsrc\fR to string buffer
\fIdest\fR of size \fIdestLen\fR, after converting each byte to a substring which represents the visible form of the byte.
The string in \fIdest\fR is null-terminated if \fIdestLen\fR is greater than zero.
.PP
Each byte in \fIsrc\fR is passed to vizc.3 with the \fIflags\fR argument.  The string result is then stored in
\fIdest\fR if room is available.  Copying stops when \fIdestLen\fR - 1 characters have been saved in \fIdest\fR or
\fIsrcLen\fR bytes have been converted from \fIsrc\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
The \fBstplvizcpy\fR() function returns a pointer to the terminating null in \fIdest\fR if \fIdestLen\fR is
greater than zero, otherwise \fIdest\fR.  In the latter case, the string buffer pointed to by \fIdest\fR is not changed.
.SH SEE ALSO
cxl(3), memcpy(3), memstpcpy(3), stpcpy(3), stplcpy(3)
