.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH STRIP 3 2022-06-04 "Ver. 1.1.0" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBstrip\fR - remove white space from end(s) of a string.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/string.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBchar *strip(char *str, int loc);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBstrip\fR() function removes white space (as defined by the \fBisspace\fR() function) from
the beginning, end, or both ends of string \fIstr\fR, depending on whether \fIloc\fR is less
than, greater than, or equal to zero, respectively.  It "removes" white space at the beginning
of the string by locating the first character of \fIstr\fR that is not white space.  It removes
white space at the end of the string by locating the leftmost white space character found by
scanning backward from the end of the string to the beginning and replacing it with a null
character.  Consequently, the string may be modified by this routine if \fIloc\fR is equal to or
greater than zero.
.SH RETURN VALUES
The \fBstrip\fR() function returns a pointer to the "stripped" version of the original string.
More precisely, it returns a pointer to the first non-white-space character in \fIstr\fR (which
may be the terminating null) if \fIloc\fR is less than or equal to zero; otherwise, it returns
\fIstr\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
cxl(3), isspace(3)
