.\" (c) Copyright 2022 Richard W. Marinelli
.\"
.\" This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPLv3).  To view a copy of this license, see the
.\" "License.txt" file included with this distribution or visit http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html.
.\"
.ad l
.TH VIZC 3 2022-11-04 "Ver. 1.2" "CXL Library Documentation"
.nh \" Turn off hyphenation.
.SH NAME
\fBvizc\fR - convert a character to a string in visible form.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "cxl/string.h"\fR
.HP 2
\fBchar *vizc(short \fIc\fB, ushort \fIflags\fB);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBvizc\fR() function converts character \fIc\fR to visible form according to the options in
\fIflags\fR and stores the result as a string in an internal buffer.  Printable characters not
including space (ASCII octal values 041 through 176) are converted to the same character in
string form.  The space character (octal 040) is converted to <SPC> if the \fBVizSpace\fR flag
is set (discussed below); otherwise, it is converted to a space in string form, just like the
other printable characters.  Most control characters (ASCII octal values 001 through 032) are
converted to form ^\fIX\fR, where \fIX\fR is one of the letters A through Z, with a few
exceptions.  All other ASCII 7-bit characters plus the control character exceptions just noted are
converted according to the following table:
.PP
.RS 4
.PD 0
.IP ASCII\ OCTAL\ VALUE 26
STRING FORM
.IP --------------------- 26
-----------
.IP "000 (nul)" 26
^@
.IP "012 (newline)" 26
<NL>
.IP "015 (carriage return)" 26
<CR>
.IP "033 (escape)" 26
<ESC>
.IP 034 26
^\e
.IP 035 26
^\]
.IP 036 26
^^
.IP 037 26
^_
.IP "177 (delete)" 26
^?
.PD
.RE
.PP
All 8-bit characters are converted to form <\fIn\fR>, where \fIn\fR is either a two-digit
hexadecimal number (default) or three-digit octal number.  The base of this number and the type of
space conversion that is used are determined by the value of the \fIflags\fR function argument,
which is the bitwise OR of zero or more of the following flags:
.PP
.RS 4
.PD 0
.IP VizBaseDef 18
Use default base (VizBaseHEX).
.IP VizBaseOctal 18
Octal base.
.IP VizBaseHex 18
Hexadecimal base (lower case letters).
.IP VizBaseHEX 18
Hexadecimal base (upper case letters).
.IP VizSpace 18
Convert space character to <SPC>.
.PD
.RE
.PP
.SH RETURN VALUES
If successful, \fBvizc\fR() returns a pointer to the string result of the conversion.  It
returns NULL on failure, and sets an exception code and message in the CXL Exception System to
indicate the error.
.SH SEE ALSO
cxl(3), excep(3)
